Political promise trackers serve as an essential tool for social accountability and transparency to monitor whether politicians deliver on their commitments aimed at improving people’s lives. Through tailoring these pledges, trackers fight for the right information to reach people’s requirements which also empowers the public to make more informed political decisions.To design an effective tracking tool focusing on the housing sector in the UK, this project reviews two prominent political trackers PolitiFact and the Full Fact Government Tracker as references.

First, we analyzes PolitiFact, which focuses on America as its main searching area. It is comprehensive as it covers a range of states and fields. While it concentrates less on the status of pledges, its primary goal is to report the authenticity of news rather than verifying the promises from politicians.Furthermore, it relies on traditional investigation and manual editorial work. 

In contrast, the Full Fact Government Tracker from the UK provides a more concentrated and deeper analysis tailoring the status of government policies. By comparing pledges from the government and the current situation, it evaluates the commitments from the manifesto and through multiple news agencies’ confirmation.

While the two political trackers offer overviews of total frameworks, they are still dependent on manual supervision and investigation search. To address the limitations of such situations, our project introduces a methodology of semi-automated and data-driven. By focusing on the Labour 2024 Manifesto, the UK Parliament Bills API etc., the project turns original political pledges into measurable social outcomes. Meanwhile, it allows citizens to have a better understanding of the current situation of housing policies across the UK and contributes to building a more informed society.